1) What data types do each of these values represent?

1) "A Clockwork Orange"
2) 42
3) 09/02/1945
4) 98.7
5) $15.99

A:
1) string
2) integer
3) date
4) float
6) float for the number and string for the dollar sign (concatenation) but its better
to return this entire value as a string.

2) Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

A: Database would be used when we want to create, calculate, manipulate or retrieve data.
Text files have to be loaded each time the computer starts. So, there is limitation of
RAM and storage on the device itself and this is where database shines. Its more secure,
reliable and faster.

3) Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

A: SQL is primarily a database querying language. Its main function is to retrieve or
manipulate data in the database.

4) In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

A: Database is basically like a file cabinet. Depending on how we set up the database,
we can store the files accordingly. Most companies use tables to store data in the database.
To efficiently store and retrieve something in the database, we must have some sort of reference to the table
and the data. For example, lets create a table to save all my friends. First we will create the table,
then we will specify the columns in the table so we can retrieve the information from the columns and rows,
we will create a column with the name 'friends', as we add more friends to that column,
we will create a ID column as well on that same table so we can easily join that table with other
tables if necessary. Now that we created the table with columns ID and friends, we can add
friends to the table and increase the ID accordingly.

5) Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

A: Table is what stores the information (columns, rows) we specify for that particular table.
Rows increase as we add more information to the table. For example, we have a table named 'friends' and
one column in that table named 'bestfriends', we add 'john' to that table as bestfriends. Now, john
will appear as a row in the table and as we add more friends in that list the rows will increase. Columns
are basically headers of the table in the database. Value is what is stored in each table data cell,
this can be in a column or a row.

6) List three data types that can be used in a table.

A: Integer, string and date.

7) Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries
and include their results:

SELECT date, amount
FROM payments;

A: We are selecting the date and amount columns from payments table.

SELECT amount
FROM payments
WHERE amount > 500;

A: We are selecting the amount column from payment table where amount is greater than 500.

SELECT *
FROM payments
WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

A: We are selecting all columns from payments table where payee is equal to 'Mega Foods'.

8) Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

SELECT email and sign-up date
FROM users
WHERE user = 'DeAndre Data';

SELECT user ID
FROM users
WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

SELECT *
FROM users
WHERE user ID = 4;
